---
title: Polkadot council motion 3
subtitle: Decision on whether to cancel enactment of a deferred slash.
---

*[Back to Wei's council
profile](https://that.world/~wei/polkadot/council/)*

## Background

During Polkadot validation era 51, an unfortunate slashing event
happened to one of the running validator, with around 45.9 DOTs being
lost from nominators.

The slashing happened due to an unclear documentation (and argubly
bug) in Substrate. The validator was acting in honest, trying to
restore an offline running node. However, it used the blockchain state
data from another backup node. That state data did not contain the
necessary GRANDPA metadata, resulting it to misbehave and the
slashing.

The council put forward motion #3 that will directly cancel the
slashing.

## Decision

I have tentatively decided to vote no on Polkadot council motion #3. I
want to note first that this decision has nothing to do with whether
the slashing should be cancelled, but just concerns about precendents
and rules. In fact, I think that as the validator is not malicious and
the slashing acted as a warning sign for others on how to run
validators securely, it's not unreasonable to refund the cost
eventually.

Below I want to explain my rationale of this vote. The summary is that
I think council should be careful when deciding things that can make
precendents. If possible, precendents are better made by democracy
referendum via majority votes. In addition, deciding on-chain rules
may be preferred than deciding on individual cases. The former gets
the council out of the task of needing to repeatedly decide on
individual cases and be able to focus on more important things.

## Council and precendent

Whether the slashing is cancelled will set a strong precendent for the
Polkadot validator community, no matter which way it is voted. The
council is democratically elected. However, there are only 13 members
currently and the bias, no matter in which way, is still strong. I
want to argue that as this is the first time slashing refund is
considered, it would be better to put this forward as a democracy
referendum which allows all coin holders to decide on the precedent,
rather than the council.

## Rule and individual case

My second argument is that if possible, we may want to decide on a
rule, rather than just the individual case.

First, this frees the council module and the democracy module from
needing to repeatedly deciding on the same thing. Once the on-chain
rule is set, it can later be delegated and executed semi-automatically
with much less interference. This allows council to focus on things
that benefit Polkadot more.

Second, there will always be two different spectrum of groups of
people with different understanding of how blockchain should work. One
spectrum believes that blockchains should be pragmatic and amoral. The
other spectrum believes that blockchains should hold strong principles
and be ethical. I think we should aim at solutions that can satisfy
both groups when possible, and I believe voting on rules rather than
individual cases can better accomplish that goal.

I'm working on a design of a new Substrate runtime module
`pallet-rules` that can aid accomplishment of this goal.

## Notes on pragmatism

I also want to add an additional note that both of my arguments are
not about removing council's ability to decide on edge cases or being
pragmatic. Even a precendent is obtained or a rule is applied, due to
the nature of the human process, it's not set in stone and can still
be changed later. However, *under normal operations*, being consistent
in handling governance matters will help a lot in bringing trust and
confidence to Polkadot.

## Conclusion

I have tentatively decided to vote no on Polkadot council motion
#3. Council should be careful when deciding things that make
precedents. When possible, the precendent is better made by democracy
referendum via majority votes. I also argue that in many cases,
while the governance retain its ability to decide on individual cases,
setting up on-chain enforced rules should be preferred.

I want to emphasis again that my decision on how to cast my vote on
this has nothing to do with whether the slashing should be
cancelled. In fact, I still remain neutral on that and think that as
the validator is not malicious, it's not unreasonable to refund the
cost.
