---
title: Less is More
subtitle: It Indeed is.
---

*September 12, 2015*

People often say that writing is subjective. You read an article, and
like it, while at the same time, when I read the same article, I may not
like it. It is subjective in a way that when people talk about a work
face to face, they seldom judge it, but rather, give praise and say good
things about it. However, you do hear people distinguish between a
"masterpiece" and an "ordinary work". What is the difference? What are
the objective parts of writing?

If we consider writing as a mean to communicate, we find another thing
that actually has the same goal -- programming -- instead of
communicating with a person, you communicate with a computer. However,
programming is rather objective. You know when programming works -- it
is when the program runs. At the same time, you can also hear people
comparing two programs with the same functionality, and deciding that
one of them is better than the other. They are using Occam's Razor -- it
is always better to write a shorter version of the program if it has the
same functionality -- or we can say, less is more.

The same applies to writing. When you write, you first need to consider
the reader -- it can be just you, or your future self, or as general as
all the people on the earth. You then need to make the work valid --that
it is able to communicate the idea you want to say. Last but not least,
you need to make the communication efficient and short -- it is always
better to write a shorter version of your writing, if it results in the
exact same echo in the reader's mind -- just enough details, but not
redundant.

When writing, one of the hard problems is to make the work valid -- you
are able to write down what you want to say. You need to consider how
far away you are from the reader -- the inferential steps required. For
example, when writing a private journal, or a diary, it is usually
enough to just write down keywords because additional inferential steps
are seldom needed. However, when writing a public article, the right
amount of inferential steps is really important -- if you have too many
inferential steps, the experienced readers would go away; and if you
have too little, the inexperienced readers would not understand.

Writing is a "verb". People usually do not write on the purpose of
wishing a linguist would rediscover your work a thousand years later.
You share your thoughts with people who are alive. And when you consider
the beauty of a work, remember that less is actually more, but still,
keep it long enough so that your readers would understand.
