---
title: Make Things
subtitle: Make, Make, Make.
---

*November 16, 2015*

Whenever I feel confused or uncertain, I will usually construct a list
of life goals as guidance to decide about what to do next. The list
almost at all times contains those things: love, happiness and health.
It also contains programming. And at the same time, I find one thing
appears frequently in the list -- making stuff, or making things happen.
However, the reason I put "making things happen" in the list is less
obvious than "programming" or "happiness". The latter are either my
personal hobbies / my professionals, or basic human needs. The former,
which includes making drawings, music, other forms of arts, or even
making new knowledge and new technology, including making computer
programs, is often categorized into "curiosity".

In my life, two types of "curiosity"s have appeared. The first one
involves learning new knowledge, how things works and other people's
thoughts. The second one, which is what is being discussed here,
involved making new things.

Learning involves unknown, which makes the first type of curiosity
involves something new. When you learn something, when you know other
people's thoughts, there's always at least something new in it. However,
it is not always the case for the second type of curiosity.

I can still remember the first computer programs I wrote. It was in my
5th grade when I wrote a calculator using a programming language called
BASIC. Everything was simple -- no magic was ever involved. You inputted
two numbers, and it outputted one. Nothing was new, but I wrote the
program again and again, just for fun. Is that the curiosity type of
"making things"?

That question didn't bother me a lot when I was a child. However, when I
grew older and older, I started to question the functionality of what
curiosity is built on -- logic and rationality. What are the purpose of
them?

And as soon as I realized that the purpose of rationality is not just
for the pure seek of rationality, but being used as a tool, so as to
help us to predict the future, I started to apply it to my daily life. I
started trying to predict other people's behaviors, predict the
influence of my own actions, predict what might happen in the history
before knowing the truth. I found the joy of making predictions, of
anticipations.

And at the same time, I realized that this might be the answer for the
curiosity type of "making things" -- for sure, it does not necessarily
involve anything new, but it is built as something predictable. When
being creative, you predict yourself, or other people, could understand
the feelings and emotions behind the works. When making new technology,
you predict the future. And when making computer programs, you predict
that some certain things will happen when interacted -- although
sometimes it fails.
