---
title: The Bored Reader
subtitle: Sometimes People Do.
---

*November 26, 2015*

When a reader gets bored, it is possible that you are simply telling
them something they have no interest in. While this is the case, there's
another really important thing to consider -- the inferential steps.

You may say something that requires too many inferential steps. For
example, if you talk about "epistemology" without pointing out that this
is related to the branch of philosophy concerned with the nature and
scope of knowledge, a reader may lose track of what you are talking
about. If a reader cannot understand, he won't read on.

It is also a bad idea to talk about something that requires no
inferential step -- something that the reader has already known or can
easily imagine. For example, if you are writing a story, it is usually a
bad idea to directly write down your opinions or comments of the story
-- you should let the reader feel it. Readers are humans. They are those
who already know how human thinks (although technically, they don't
**understand** it well, but that's another topic). If you tell them
opinions or comments directly, it's like teaching them how human thinks
-- they just hate people repeatedly telling them things they have
already known.

It takes efforts to avoid getting readers bored. I struggled a long time
on this issue until I met someone who has used her writing to appeal
many people.

"How do you know when the writing is finished?" I asked.

"When the writing makes sense to me." She said, as if this was the most
common thing that everybody had already understood.
