---
title: Preface
subtitle: What should be said in the beginning.
order: 0
---

The first chapter projects introduces a portion of my open source
projects. Those projects are mostly about functional and logic
programming, and the introduction is meant to make both technical and
non-technical readers able to understand what those projects are
about.

The second chapter thursdays contains notes about specific programming
topics. In the past, I talked about drawing jellyfishes, meta logic
programming, and statistical relational learning. The chapter updates
with a new note every other Thursday.

The third chapter reflections reflects on things I did in the
past. The notes are about what I did right and wrong during the time
of founding a startup, or attending an interview, or thinking about
philosophical questions.

The forth chapter twelves involves topics I have previously thought
about. The topics range from hacker cultures, to rationality, to
writing and traveling.

The fifth chapter encyclopedia uses the format of an encyclopedia to
talk about everything I care about.

The sixth chapter talks recreates talks and presentations (mostly
technical) I did in various places.

The last chapter notes holds notes that I find interesting but are not
fitted in the above chapters.

I hope you have a good time reading.

## Words of Thanks

First of all, thank you for reading this notebook. Without you, all my
writings and codes would be meaningless.

I owe many people notes of personal thank-you. Some of them I still
have contact, but many of them I haven't kept in touch for a long
time. As I am writing a notebook, I would like to silently write down
their names, because it is important to say "thank you", but sometimes
I treat it too casual, and as a result, forget to do it.

Among people who helped or influenced me in my life, to whom I owe
many notes of personal thank you are, in some vague semblance of
chronological order: Haixiang Tang, Zhengyou Tang, Pili Hu, Tim Chan,
Byron Choi, William Byrd, Mary Rose Cook, Thomas Ballinger, SoonKhen
OwYong, Rui Chen, Bradley Boccuzzi, Haimeng Zhang, Shuwen Sun, Xi Wen,
Xiujie Sun.

## Notebooks in Other Languages

Notebooks in other languages are also available. Currently there's a
Lojban notebook [la efku](https://efku.la) and a Chinese notebook [早
安，世界](http://早安.世界).

## Contact

You can reach me by email through <hi@beyond.codes>.

## Stay in Touch

You can subscribe to the announcement maillist to get news about
Beyond Codes. Only one or two emails per year.

<form method="post"
action="https://mail.beyond.codes/mailman/subscribe/news">
  <input name="email">
  <input type="submit" name="email-button" value="Subscribe">
</form>
