---
title: The Sea of Joys and Sorrows
subtitle: Spending Some Time Outside.
---

I studied on a ship for three month during my third college year.

Sea was always exciting -- I could stand on the deck for hours, just
looking at the sea, and think about all the amazing joys and sorrows
--it was not always happy, of course. Sometimes there were full of
depression and negativity. However, I have finally taken several steps
of my childhood dream of traveling around the world. I have been in
Asia, Europe, Africa, South America, and North America. I have traveled
to my dream country that I always wanted to go as a child -- San Marino.
Several years later, I may be regretting of all the things I missed
during this trip, but it would be a trip worth regretting -- because it
became a part of my life.

A Nerd's Guide to Travel
------------------------

Here's something that people usually think it is too easy that everybody
should have already known about traveling. Well, I spent a long time
learning them, actually.

-   **Basic**: Bring enough water and food, because you need to fulfill
    all the basic needs before enjoying the view. If you are climbing a
    mountain as a day trip, at least bring a lunch-worth of food, and
    more than 1200ml of water (yes, you need two bottles).
-   **Toilets**: if you are in a tourist place, ask the police, or a
    waitress in a restaurant for direction. If you are not in a tourist
    place, go to a shop or a restaurant and ask whether you can use
    their toilets.
-   **Strangers**: You can use any excuse to talk with strangers.
    Sometimes just saying "hi" will work, and you can directly ask them
    questions to fulfill your "social curiosity". Or you can make a
    compliment about her hat. Or you can ask for time or direction. Or
    you can say anything that is common among you, for example, you both
    volunteered in Habitat for Humanity.
-   **Alone**: Traveling alone doesn't necessarily result in loneliness.
    Loneliness happens when the thing that you think is important cannot
    be shared. You can find people to talk along the road. Try friendly
    people first.
-   **Stress**: It is important, but a skill that is not easy to put
    in words. Try to cope with depression when you are traveling.
-   **Plan**: You don't need a detailed plan, but a general idea about
    where you want to go, so that you can ask people on the road
    when lost.
-   **Your own way of travel**: Try to do travel in a way that you like. For
    example, if you like traveling by bike, do it as much as you can.
-   **Action**: Don't forget to actually do what you think you are
    supposed to do!

A Traveler's Guide to Thinking
------------------------------

How hard is thinking, anyway?

I used to do a lot of meta-thinking, the kind of thinking that fixes its
own problem. Rationality, for example, proved to be really useful. There
was a time when I was suffering from depression, and rationality's
attitude towards truth and fear largely saved my life. I was so excited
every time when I met a rationalist on the Internet.

I also did a lot of thinking about programming, and about things related
to Hacker. I developed my idea of writing a Lisp kernel, of the
first-class predicate, and of a Lisp Machine operating system. Each time
I got a new idea of programming, I was so excited that I wanted to tell
all people around me.

But there isn't a lot of hackers, nor rationalists, on the road when you
are traveling, is it?

"Don't close your mind, " Ariana Maki once told me, "because there will
be a lot of different things when you travel, and you need to see them."

I saw the over-decorated buildings in Rome, the reuse and the recycle
Roman churches did in ancient time, as well as the details and the
perspective of drawings in Uffiz Museum. When I saw them, what bumped
into my mind was some new thoughts about history, about design, about
art, and about all the things I saw when I traveled. I thought about my
old stop-and-think approach, which is an approach when you see things,
and stop, and clam for several hours, and then make up your minds. I
thought about how it wouldn't work because our lives are moving.

I went to San Marino, and thought about my childhood dreams. I thought
about my efforts and the realization of that naive dream. A dream is a
dream, anyway.

In Dubrovnik, I saw all the birds, the people and the huge old clock in
a square. I sat there, and thought about the uniqueness of a place or a
person, and why we need to add time and connected details for its
meaning. I saw the buildings moving upward the mountain, and thought
about beauty.

I listened to a woman talking about the Croatian wars, and thought about
why she used the world "conflict" instead of "war". I thought about why
in my own culture, it is not that open for discussion about wars. I
heard a girl talking about the American civil wars, and thought about
why her grandfather, who was involved in that war, never talked about
it. I thought about those "no man's fault" which causes suffering, and
thought about those "wars" that causes suffering by someone on purpose.

I listened to one of my friends talking about her mission of this trip
-- "art and coffee," she said -- and realized how weird it was because
two months later, she described her mission again as "music and food". I
thought about my intention about not being a teacher, because I want to
be with people smarter than me, not people that I need to teach.

The next day, I got drunk, and thought about the simple task of
describing the experience of being drunk, and failed.

I went hiking in a lake, and thought about my own philosophy -- about
why it is related to my goal system, why it is like mathematics, why I
have nearly lost it, why it may never work and why I will continue to
seek for it. I looked at the waves of the lakes, and its reflections,
and realized how different it is from the waves of the ocean that I saw
on the ship. I thought about small talk, about how I should interact
with people. I thought about the importance of thinking of present, and
future, but not past, although we learn from history, and realized how
interesting it was because two month later, I asked Noot the question
"what are some fundamental things about the future that we don't know"
and she answered "the present".

The night when I was in Dakar, I saw the ancient broken buildings
cooperated with the city, a playground where kids laughed and played. I
thought about how ancient things gain new life, and how people find
peace, and the opposite of war. I went to the music lounge, where
beautiful sounds were generated by ocean waves, and thought about my
principles of writing -- "well, I didn't take photos, so I will try hard
to make you imagine that." The next morning on the bus, I thought about
how important it is to say "oops", to accept you are wrong.

I was mostly struggled about the meaning of travel when I was in Greece
-- the question is as hard as asking about the meaning of life. I joined
a tour of homeless people, and thought about how many invisible things I
had missed when traveling.

I cycled in Spain with two other friends. I thought about how people
could be so determined. "Are you sure?" The shop assistant asked, didn't
believe that we were going to cycle from here to Barcelona. My friends
said sharply "yes". I thought about friends, and how they taught me a
lot through their actions. We stopped in the middle to talk with a
farmer whose language we didn't speak. I thought about how I could be as
determined and brave as them.

I went to Morocco, and thought about people who lived in the mountain. I
went to Senegal, and thought about talking with people whose language
you don't know, and about the poverty there in Africa. I went to Brazil
for hiking, and thought about how things would finally disappear. I
thought about the art of travel, and the art of life. I thought about
volunteering when I was in Trinidad, and I thought about travelers when
I was in Costa Rica.

I also thought about a lot when I was sailing. Ziyan told me the
brilliant idea of recording a place for 72 hours. Monica told me about
dying languages, which reminded me of Lojban. Haimeng told me about how
not to be that stressful, how to write an application or proposal, and
left-behind children in China. They all reminded me of why I should be
more serious about life and about my future, and why I should take
actions now to find opportunities and alternatives.

How hard is thinking? Well, not that hard, if you first learn how to
listen and how to see. We don't think if we don't see.

Travelers and Locals
--------------------

Social curiosity is something that many people, especially nerds, strike
hard to find. What would be the motivation for people to be interested
in others if we can learn all the fun stuff from books, music and
movies? If as the old saying goes, "what is drama, but life with dull
bits cut", then why don't we watch drama to find all what we are
interested in?

I met two travelers in Florence. We stayed in a hostel together with a
local student. "When is the last day?" The local student asked with his
Italian English. "It will be Saturday." One of the two travelers said
with his Canadian English. "Oh, come on. Yesterday was Tuesday." I added
with my Chinese English. We all burst into laughter. For us, criticizing
the ambiguity of English -- nearly the only thing we had in common --was
fun and enjoyable.

When I was in San Marino, I asked for directions of a local people.
"Good luck!" He said, in the warmest voice that I'd ever heard, and
disappeared into the darkness of the night lights. In Naples, when I was
lost and looking at the subway map on a wall, a young man approached and
asked whether I need help. A young couple went back to their hotels and
got me a map for directions. In Barcelona, a bike shop spent a whole
afternoon to help me with my bike shipping issue. For us, warmth
matters.

In Plitavic Lakes, I was hiking alone, a young woman talked with me.
"Why are you traveling alone?" She said. In La Fortuna, when I reached
the top of the mountain, a young couple and an old couple was excited to
find other travelers. "Wow, you are from Russia, you are from
Switzerland, you are from Costa Rica, and you are from China. This is
like a summit." They said. For us, meeting people and discovering new
things itself, is simply exciting.

In Zadar, I stayed with a young man who didn't know English but
Croatian, but we figured out how to ask "where are you from?". On the
road from Valencia to Barcelona, I met a young farmer who didn't know
English but Spanish, but we talked about his plantation. In Dakar, I met
a handsome guy who didn't know English but French, but he showed me
around the bird reserve. In Salvador, I met a man who didn't know
English but Spanish, but we talked for half an hour about his religion,
and about the beautiful lake we were at. For us, the excitement proceeds
even we don't speak the same language.

I joined a tour guided by a homeless person in Athens. I met children
from a far away village of Marrakech. In a national park in Brazil, we
spent a whole afternoon trying to find diamonds with a local guide. For
us, the invisible was released by people.

I remember when I was in La Fortuna, a young man found me, excitedly
saying "are you Chinese". I also remember when I was in San Jose, I met
three people talking in that familiar entrepreneur style. For us,
sometimes, we talk, just to find home.

Drama is fun, but there will be no drama if a life is never lived.

Reflection: The Meta Question
-----------------------------

*What is it to be learned?*

There are two types of knowledge. The first one can be expressed in
words, and the second one can't. It is believed that successful people
possess many of the second type of knowledge. At the same time, it is
believed that those second type of knowledge is hard to learn, even if
you stay all days and nights with those people who possess them. It is
like learning to ride a bicycle -- you can read books about how to ride
a bicycle for a month, without actually knowing how ti ride it.

The other sad truth is that many important knowledges of the second
type, which accelerates one's life, are usually so fundamental, that
people just forget to talk about it. So knowing those knowledge is like
entering a conspiracy -- nobody would tell you how to ride the bicycle,
they would only encourage you to give it a try.

So when you are not at home, learning and reading books, the most
important knowledge to learn is the second type.

The first important thing to learn is realization, or awareness. Realize
that for all things you love, you need to strive, and be serious.
Realize the importance of people around you. Realize that if you need
help, you need to request. Realize that there are alternatives. Realize
how to make efforts. And last but not least, realize that you need to
realize.

The second important thing is about handling things in general. What you
should first think about when you are in trouble. How to greet strangers
in the first place. What to do if you are in a bad mood. How not to make
a situation get worse.

The third one is the real skills. The skills of communication, of making
friends, and of influence. The skills of being sincere. And most
importantly, the skills of traveling.

However, do not forget all the classical things you are already good at
-- continue to learn them and get better at them wherever you are.
