---
title: A
subtitle: Abc, Artists, Amazing.
---

## Artists

*November 2, 2015*

It was a beautiful Monday afternoon, I walked along with the artist back
to the ship. While we were near the ship, I hesitated. He didn't ask for
any money, but I felt an urge to help him.

"Look, I can't give you any money, not because I'm not able to, but
because I think it won't help you. " I tried to express something I
still hadn't fully understood. "Whatever I buy from you, it may feed you
and your family for today, but it won't help you for tomorrow. It's not
good for you, so I won't do that. "

That's my moral, a way that I felt rational while I was traveling.
However, it seemed that the artist had not understood it. His face
suddenly looked confused, with the friendliness and the peacefulness
disappeared.

I met him after a long and tiresome Sunday, travelling with the totally
uninformative bus system in Dakar, fighting with the sun, and getting
lost.

"I am an artist." At least that's how he introduced himself. He's a
merchant.

"Take a look at those beautiful pieces."

Just as all other people who tried to sell me things, he showed me some
wooden paintings with natural scenery.

I met a lot of merchants while walking around Dakar. Usually the
conversation was started because of a gaze of eye contact. From my
looking, they immediately recognized that I was probably from some parts
of eastern Asia, so a random guess would then begin. "Japan! Korea!
China!" They would do it until they saw my expression had changed,
knowing that they had made the right guess, or otherwise, if they found
it didn't work, they would start a safer strategy. "Where are you from?"
They would say. If again, that didn't work, they would try to find
another topic since nationality is probably a sensitive topic in some
area. "Are you a traveler here?" or "How do you come to Dakar?" or
"Where are you going?" If then, that still didn't work, they would just
try to be helpful and provide some information of local attractions.
"You must go to the market. Nobody traveling missed that."

If ever, any of those strategies worked, if ever, you responded to any
of these questions, you ran into a "conversation black hole". There
would be so many topics they could talk with you, that would make you
wonder why your friends were silent being with you all the time. And of
course, in the end, as a ritual, hopefully you would buy something from
them.

And here, just like all the other merchants I had met, the artist
standing in front of me, showing me some wooden paintings.

"Take a look at those beautiful pieces. It's made by hand."

He said again, with his smiling face that seemed never to be tired. He
had short hairs, middle height, and a totally white cloth that directly
went down to his feet. His face looked friendly and handsome, that you
would feel perfectly normal if someone introduced him as a hard-working
student, or a local engineer, but you would not expect to find him on a
street selling wooden pieces.

He looked at me, still smiling, trying to look friendly, but just like
all the other merchants I had met, I decided to refuse him and walk
away. However, I suddenly realized that I wanted some hand-made
postcards to send back to my friends.

"Do you have any hand-made postcard?" I asked.

"Postcards? Oh, postcards!"

From his words, I concluded that not many traveler here bought
postcards, or at least not from them. However, he was still trying to be
helpful, saying that he would lead me to a store that sold them. I
quickly nodded, because of my experiences of getting lost in this huge
city.

I quickly learned a lot from them. He was married with two children. He
was originally a Christian, but later converted to a Muslim. His wife
and him made a living by making those art pieces and selling them to
travelers. I then asked how many pieces he could sell every day. "3 for
mine, 2 for my wife, and 2 for my brother." He said, not proud, of
course, but confident and peaceful. But that 7 pieces would only earn
him around 10 to 15 dollars per day, below the minimal wage of many
countries.

We stopped in a corner of the street, finding the shop the artist
planned to go closed on Sunday. He felt sorry, and went out to ask
another local people for another shop. While I was waiting, another
merchant came to me, introducing himself as the artist's brother, and
trying to sell me some other hand-made things. I told him that I would
not be able to buy anything from him, since those hand-made things
contains animal skins, and it was forbidden for me to bring them back to
the ship. However, he insisted and gave me a small gift.

While we walked back to the ship, there were a long time of silence,
because everyone was disappointed -- I didn't get the postcards, the
artist didn't find the shop, and the artist's brother didn't sell
anything to me.

"Come tomorrow. On Monday every shop should be open." The artist said. I
felt specious of whether I could successfully find him, but still I
nodded.

The artist's brother certainly didn't think that we would be able to
meet the next day. He insisted on my buying something from him. It
ultimately ran into a conflict, with both of us started shouting. I
still didn't buy anything from him, sending a clear message that it's
difficult to overcharge me.

As a result, I didn't expect it when I met the artist the next day.

"I was waiting for you for a long time!" The artist said.

As we walked to the shop, we crossed the busy market in Dakar. Cars,
people and animals were everywhere, going as they pleased, ignoring all
other creations of the world. It was just a miracle that I didn't get
hit. While I felt the situation dangerous, the artist started joking.

"I think you are old enough. Do you want a wife in Senegal?"

When we arrived at the shop, another merchant showed me many beautiful
hand-made postcards. Since I only had a few friends to send them, I only
brought two after a long time of careful selecting and choosing. The
shop was a little bit quieter when I paid for them, and the merchant
even seemed a little angry -- they certainly expected me to buy more.

However, two postcards were all I need.

The artist insisted on leading me back to the ship. He didn't seem to be
a man who would be able to afford to guide someone for free who only
wanted two postcards. He only sold two art pieces that day -- not even
enough to buy food for his family in an expensive city like Dakar.

His brother finally got angry at him. Although they were speaking
French, I could still gasp the meaning a little bit. "You can't get any
money from him any more. Why are you still guiding him?" His brother
said.

"I led him out, so I need to guide him back." The artist said.

I was a beautiful sunset while we walked back. The light went down in a
huge angle, leaving the shadows behind us covering a large space.
Everywhere was yellowish, and if I was not in that hesitation, I would
have been enjoying the scenery.

"Giving money to you would do no good. So I can't do that." I still feel
an urge to explain what I meant, hoping the artist would understand that
what he really needed was not only tonight's food, but also a long-term
mindset, finding a better job, seeking a better education, or probably a
less corrupted government and a fair environment.

However, the artist was still confused. Now, instead, he showed me
snakes and sugars that other people had given him, saying that he would
be grateful if I could buy him some food, and that was what I did.

I questioned whether that was a right decision, but history had already
been made, and now my only hope is that at that night, when the man
eating together with his wife and two children, he found his wife so
beautiful and his children so lovely, that he decided to provide them
with better lives. "Well, " I hope he was saying, "Maybe now is the time
to educate myself and to find a better job."
