---
title: B
subtitle: Buildings, Bicycle, Bus.
---

## Buildings in France

*September 13, 2015*

On my way to Le Havre to board the ship, I met Thuy. She was an outgoing
girl, and always spoke with a sense of seriousness -- you could not
ignore her while she's talking, because there were always such strong
emotions in her words that forced you to listen.

We caught up a train, feeling exhausted after moving all our baggage on
board, looking out of the window to enjoy the beautiful country view of
France. Thuy was overjoyed, and she started to talk with us about her
love of France.

We crossed by a valley. Looking out of the window, there was a huge
grassland in the middle of it. Hills beside it were occupied by houses
and churches. The style of all the buildings followed a certain pattern
-- it is usually light yellow or brown. The roof were usually inclined
and roads went directly upward the hills. Together with the beautiful
nature sight around them, it gave me a sense of nature and peace.

Thuy excitedly talked about all the countryside buildings in the north
of France, and expressed her plan to live there after she retired.
Although it would be nearly 50 more years for her to carry out her plan,
she would have a high chance of success, for human beings all love
beautiful and peaceful things.

## Bus Ride

*October 1, 2015*

On my way from Dubrovnik to Zadar, there was a moment when the bus
stopped. It was at a bus station that surrounded, on the one side by
trees, and on the other side, by the ocean. I noticed a small dragonfly
rested on the window near me.

The bus started again, and as it went faster and faster, winds were
outside the windows, stronger and stronger. Strangely, the dragonfly was
still sticking on the window, with its wings disordered, and its body in
a distorted shape. I thought it mistakenly stuck on the window somehow
and was going to die.

The bus soon reached another bus stopped. The moment the bus stopped,
the dragonfly waked up and flied away -- it turned out that the
dragonfly was taking a bus ride.
