---
title: K
subtitle: Kindness, King, Kamma.
---

## Kindness

*September 23, 2015*

On the last day of my travelling in Italy, I got lost in Naples.

It was nearly midnight and I couldn't find my way back to ship from the
train station. There were nearly no one in the station that I could turn
for help.

So I went out. There was a big square outside the building, with roads
crossing each other heading different directions. The complexity of the
roads, together with the darkness of the night, made it extremely hard
to find the direction even you find someone for help. Fortunately, I
found a young couple talking nearby a hotel, who turned out also to be
travellers. I asked them for the direction, and fortunately, it was a
place they had been to, so they pointed me with directions.

"So you can go this way, and turn left, and then you will find a big
momentum, and then turn left, and then you can find the port." They
said.

"OK. So I go straight, and then turn left, and then ...?" I tried to
remember the direction, but since I got a little bit anxious at that
time, it got hard to do it.

The couples realized that. They went to the hotel nearby that they were
staying, and asked the counter for a map. They drew the path I needed to
follow and gave the map to me, without which I would certainly got lost
in the middle of the city at midnight.

What could I say about travellers in Italy as a traveller? Well, I may
soon forget all the places of interest I went to, about the delicious
food, and about the painfulness of using gestures to communicate.
However, it would be hard to forget any of the travellers that I met in
the journey.

I tried to write this post about places I had been to, about all the
decent details of the buildings dating back one thousand years ago, and
above all, about things that were "uncommon" in my hometown. Instead, I
find one other thing that is more fascinating -- travelers.
