---
title: M
subtitle: Milk, Machines, Multiverse.
---

## Milky Way

*December 30, 2014*

It is getting harder and harder to see Milky Way with bare eyes. You
can't see stars inside cities, and you need to go far away from them to
find the sky dark enough, and all stars appear. I remember a night when
I was in Dali. It was cold, and there were no people on the street,
since people living outside cities usually go to sleep early. There was
a full moon. Its lights pooled down to the lake below. With the wind,
there were like white fishes swimming around. And I looked up at the
sky. I saw stars. It was the milky way.

## Machines

*May 18, 2015*

There is the only program that I want to write when talking about
machines:

~~~ clojure
(def (live x moment)
  (exist x moment)
  (live x (inc moment)))

(run* (machine)
  (live machine))
~~~

## Multiverse

*August 28, 2015*

If we define universe as time and space we can sense, we will get
several different universes. Those universes have clear borders, which
is not governed by the physical law, but the point of view of human
beings.

In order to identify those universe, let's consider the most basic sense
in the universe, touch. Touching is the interaction happens with two
objects close enough. If I am sitting on a desk, I touch the desk, and
the desk touch me, because we are close enough. A computer is on the top
of a table, because the computer touches the table, and the table
touches the computer, and they are close enough. The sense of touch is
like force in physics, but from a human's point of view.

Some objects can touch each other as long as they are close enough, like
me and the desk. We categorize those objects together with the time and
space, and call it a universe. Physical objects can touch each other, so
they belong to **Universe 0**. However, on the Internet, or on any
digital device, no physical objects can touch any program or any source
code (if they are close enough, the physical object would destroy the
program or the source code), but those programs and source codes can
touch each other, so they belong to **Universe 1**. Using the same
method, we find all thoughts, logic, and beauty in our mind is in
**Universe 2**.

However, two objects cannot touch each other doesn't mean they cannot
influence each other. We type in commands on a laptop through keyboard,
and the thoughts in our mind influences our behaviours. It is clear
those objects in **Universe 0**, **Universe 1** and **Universe
2** belongs to a bigger universe, which is the **Multiverse**.

(Note again that the above explanation is from a human's point of view,
but not actual physics.)
