---
title: S
subtitle: Social, Sad, Survive.
---

## Survival Guide

*May 21, 2015*

When I go to a new city, I always want something like a survival guide.
How does people eat there? What do people usually take for
transportation? And it all becomes a mess when you don't have Internet
access, or you can't find that basic information you need if you travel
too far away from home.

*May 22, 2015*

When I learn computer science, I always want to find a survival guide.
Vim has one, and Emacs also has one. It is the kind of thing that just
teaches you enough so that you are able to use the tools or write in
that programming language, but nothing more. The advantage of a survival
guide is that you will only learn the necessity, so it doesn't take a
long time. After that, you can start to explore it and learn what you
really need by yourself.

## Social

*May 27, 2015*

I am terrible at being social. I admit it, and appreciate it that people
can point it out. It is the deep feeling of stressed and nervous that
stops me approaching others. For me, I'm half on the road if I can start
talking.

So I will try to do this next time I have any opportuntiy talking with
others -- try to understand, and be interested in what others are
talking about.

## Sid Meier's Civilization

*May 30, 2015*

I remember those days when I just sat down and play one or two rounds of
games. Sid Meier’s Civilization is one of the games I love to play. A
round of Civilization takes a long time. Depending on how much time you
have, it ranges from one day two several weeks.

I played the game on Saturday for a whole day. It’s funny that after
such a long time I still loved playing the beginner level, but I thought
I just loved the feeling of domination.

## Sunset

*September 28, 2015*

This post is just about yet another sunset on the ship.

There was no sun -- it was behind the cloud. There was no people
watching -- except me. And there was nothing significant -- nobody
shouted "Wow". It was a normal sunset. The ocean reflected the light,
waving hard to an unknown destination. People were laughing, shouting,
and eating dinner.

But there was something different. As the ship moved, waves of water
were pushed outward. Together with the wind coming inward the ship,
spray appeared on the edge of each wave, making all the scene unreal,
looking like an ocean created by a computer algorithm.

Yeah, but the waves were there, and shouting -- what a beautiful sunset.
